Task: Describe the TABLE- orders.
--desc orders;

Problem statement
You are required to find out which category is performing better in terms of profit than the others so that business can find ways to improve.
Write a query for the same. Result should be such that the highest profit category and its respective sum of profit be on the top of result set.
--Select category, SUM(Profit) from orders GROUP BY category ORDER BY SUM(Profit) DESC;


Problem statement
Which category had the highest profits?
--Technology

Problem statement
While going through the data set you found out that the State column in the Orders table also contains Union territories and found a mistake.

You found that for Chandigarh the city is marked as Delhi. You pointed out this mistake to database manager and he asks you to update the table

Write the query to update the city as Chandigarh where the State is Chandigarh.
Print all the contents of the table after updating.
--Update orders Set City = 'Chandigarh' where State = 'Chandigarh';
--Select * from orders;


Problem statement
As a next step, you want to know how much company profit has been generated by the company so far.

Write a query to find the total profit sum from orders table.

Result should be such that only total profit sum is returned.
--Select SUM(Profit) from orders;


Problem statement
You saw that the company has made good profits so far. You are required to report which order had the highest profit so far.

Write a query to get the OrderID, ProductName and Profit. Result should be with respect to profit(In increasing order).
--SELECT Order_ID, Product_Name, Profit FROM orders ORDER BY Profit;



Problem statement
Going through the data, you also want to report orders where there was loss.

Write a query to get all the orders where there was a loss and report the order ID, product name and loss. Sort the result in a format that the highest loss is on the top.
--SELECT Order_ID, Product_Name, Profit FROM orders WHERE Profit < 0 ORDER BY Profit;


Problem statement
Your manager wants to know the Product with highest loss. Write the Product_Name of such product. (Loss is when profit gets negative.)

 Maintain the same alphabet case as in the Product_Name.
--Cubify CubeX 3D Printer Double Head Print


Problem statement
Now you know all the orders where there was a loss. You are curious to know why the company made a loss on those items. You see that discounts are also given on some items.

Write a query to get the list of all orders which have loss and sort them in descending order of discount given.

Print OrderID, ProductName, Profit and Discount.
--Select Order_ID,Product_Name,Profit,Discount from orders where Profit<0 Order By Discount DESC;

Problem statement
Does the order with the highest loss was given the highest discount?

Write N(For No) and Y(For Yes).
--N


Problem statement
You now want to know if there are particular states which are making losses. Write a query to get the State and sum of profit for each state. The result should be in increasing order of profit.
--Select State, SUM(Profit) from orders GROUP BY State ORDER BY SUM(Profit) ASC;      

Problem statement
The states which are making a loss?
--Delhi, Daman and Diu.

Problem statement
You have done a great job in helping the firm come up with states which are reporting losses. Now you want to go further and list categories in each state and see their profit. This will help analyze how various categories are performing in each state.

Write a query to get state, category and sum of profits.
--Select State, Category, SUM(Profit) from orders GROUP BY State,Category;

Problem statement
Did you have any observations? Were there any states which are in loss because of category? Choose the correct option for such states and their categories.
--Delhi- Furniture, Daman and Diu- Furniture.


Problem statement
You realised that there are three segments of products: Consumer, Corporate and Home office. You ask your manager to provide you a list of the people who are managing these segments. Unfortunately these are not present in the database. Since you want to digitise the system, you plan to put the data in the database. He provides you the data on a sheet of paper as follows:

Segment - Varchar(100)
Segment_Manager- Varchar(100)
Write a query to create a table in the database with Name as Manager and with values provided. Do assign proper Primary key.

--Create table Manager(
Segment  Varchar(100),
Segment_Manager Varchar(100),
Primary Key(Segment)
);
Insert into Manager Values('Consumer', 'Gagnjit Singh'),
('Corporate','Aman Jain'),
('Home Office', 'Kush Arora');
Select * from Manager;


Problem statement
Now you have a table in the database named Manager. You are required to get the total profit and total orders for each segment.
Write a query to get Segment, count of order, sum of profit.
--SELECT Segment, COUNT(Order_ID), SUM(Profit) FROM orders GROUP BY Segment;


Problem statement
Which manager reported the highest profit.
--gaganjit singh

Problem statement
Since you want to help the segment managers get fair evaluation and your manager has asked you to get the covid effect on the sales.

Write the query to get sum of sales, sum of profit for the year 2020.
--SELECT  SUM(Sales),SUM(profit)
FROM orders 
WHERE Order_Date  LIKE '%20';


Problem statement
Now your manager wants you to remove 2020 from the total sales and profit and present the result. Write a query to get the sum of sales of each segment and their respective segment manager for all years except 2020.
--SELECT  SUM(orders.Sales),Manager.Segment_Manager
FROM orders 
LEFT JOIN Manager
ON orders.Segment=Manager.Segment 
WHERE Order_Date NOT LIKE '%20' 
GROUP BY orders.Segment;


Problem statement
Write a query to get Customer ID and sum of profit for each. The result should be such that you are easily able to find the highest profit customer.
--Select Customer_ID, SUM(Profit) from orders GROUP BY Customer_ID ORDER BY SUM(Profit) DESC;


Problem statement
Write down the customer id of the highest profit customer.
--TC-20980

Problem statement
Write a query to find the customer details having the highest Profit. The result should be such that you are easily able to find the highest profitable customer.

The query should have columns : Customer_ID, Customer_Name_, sum of Sales, sum of Profit, count of Order_ID.
--Select  orders.Customer_ID, customers.Customer_Name_, SUM(orders.Sales), SUM(orders.Profit) , COUNT(orders.Order_ID) 
from orders
JOIN customers
ON customers.Customer_ID = orders.Customer_ID
GROUP BY customers.Customer_ID, customers.Customer_Name_
ORDER BY SUM(orders.Profit) DESC ;

